README.md, before:

<a name="top"></a>
## 🎮  Playhub - Gamestore - Project Background

***Q1,Q2‑Commercial Review: Game Shop Sales Report Jan-Jun 2025***

Play Hub is an online retailer specialising in gaming consoles and IT equipment, offering products such as PlayStation 5 consoles, AirPods, and Google Pixel devices. This analysis focused on sales performance for the first half of 2025, using Python with Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn and Excel to uncover purchasing trends and operational insights. Based on these findings, projections were developed for the second half of the year to guide stock planning, marketing strategies, and revenue optimisation. The review demonstrates how data-driven insights can support stronger business performance.  

The review will provide recommdations the following key areas:  

-  **[Marketing Channel Performance & Revenue Contribution](#marketing-channel-performance--revenue-contribution)**  
-  **[High-Value vs Low-Value Single-Order Users](#high-value-vs-low-value-single-order-users)**  


The csv file used to inspect, clean and analyse the data is [here](Dataset).   
The Python code to export the clean data is [here](Dataset/Code.ipynb).

---
## Marketing Channel Performance & Revenue Contribution  

We looked at revenue performance by each marketing channel, Affiliate, Direct, Email, Search and Social. Revenue is very evenly spread across channels, with Affiliate and Search slightly outperforming the rest.
Search stands out for having the highest average order value, suggesting high-intent customers, while Social and Affiliate drive revenue more through volume.
There’s an opportunity to optimise channel mix rather than relying on any single channel.  


<img width="4931" height="2200" alt="Picture 2" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/667a7dfd-53f5-4df2-bf8e-ac2c3017a7f6" />  

### Key Findings

- 	**Revenue distribution is balanced** across all channels, with Affiliate (£632k) and Search (£597k) marginally outperforming others.  
- 	**Search delivers the highest Average Order Value (£481)**, indicating stronger purchase intent and higher quality traffic.  
- 	**Affiliate and Social drive revenue primarily through order volume**, not transaction value.  
- 	**Email and Direct perform efficiently but at smaller scale**, with competitive AOVs but lower total orders.   

No channel is currently a clear outlier, suggesting stability but limited upside without targeted optimisation.
 
### Commercial Interpretation  

- 	**Intent differentiation:** Search captures late-funnel demand, resulting in higher AOV, while Social and Affiliate capture broader, earlier funnel traffic.  
- 	**Volume vs value dynamics:** Revenue parity across channels is achieved through different mechanics. Either higher AOV (Search) or higher order counts (Affiliate, Social).  
- 	**Risk profile:** Even revenue spread reduces exposure to channel specific volatility but may indicate under-leveraged high-intent channels.
 
### Strategic Implications & Recommendations  

***Scale selectively***  
- 	**Search:** Prioritise incremental investment while closely tracking marginal ROI and cost inflation.  
- 	**Affiliate:** Maintain investment given strong revenue contribution, subject to margin and commission control.  

***Optimise before scaling***  
- 	**Social:** Focus on conversion rate and AOV uplift through targeting and creative optimisation rather than increased spend.  
- 	**Email:** Test segmentation, retention, and cross-sell strategies to unlock incremental revenue from an efficient channel.  

***Manage trade-offs***  
- 	**Search** scaling risks diminishing returns as competition increases.  
- 	**Affiliate** growth may pressure margins if incentives rise.  
 
### Limitations & Next Analytical Steps

- 	Analyse cost per acquisition and ROAS by channel to validate scaling decisions.  
- 	Segment performance by customer type (new vs returning) to refine spend allocation.  
- 	Test AOV uplift initiatives in lower value channels to improve revenue efficiency.  

[⬆ Back to top](#top)  

---  

## High-Value vs Low-Value Single-Order Users

This dataset segments customer orders into High and Low order value groups and summarises their commercial performance using three key metrics:  
-  Order Value Segment: Categorises orders based on their monetary value (Higher vs. Lower than the average order value).  
-  Order Count: The total number of orders placed within each segment.  
-  Total Revenue: The cumulative revenue generated by each segment.  
The purpose of this segmentation is to understand how different customer value groups contribute to overall business performance and revenue generation.  

<img width="2855" height="2662" alt="Picture 3" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d44eb462-af6b-4efc-9ba5-e1909085e847" />  
<img width="3107" height="2635" alt="Picture 4" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d73c64d-a117-4eeb-a10f-c0f91dbad635" />



### Key Findings

-  The High order value segment generated approximately 74% of total revenue while representing fewer orders than the Low segment.   
-  The Low order value segment accounted for a higher number of orders but contributed only 26% of total revenue.  
-  This indicates a substantial difference in average order value between the two segments, with high-value customers driving disproportionate revenue impact.  
-  Revenue is concentrated within a smaller group of higher-spending customers, increasing the importance of segment-level performance monitoring.

 
### Commercial Interpretation  

From a commercial perspective, the business is value-led rather than volume-led.  

While the Low order value segment shows strong transactional activity, it delivers limited revenue efficiency. In contrast, the High order value segment demonstrates significantly higher revenue per order, suggesting stronger purchasing intent, higher willingness to pay, or more effective product-market fit.  

This imbalance highlights that growth driven purely by order volume may not translate into meaningful revenue uplift, whereas protecting and expanding high-value customers is likely to yield greater commercial returns.  

### Strategic Implications & Recommendations  

-  Prioritise retention of high-value customers through loyalty incentives, personalised promotions, or premium experiences to reduce revenue concentration risk.  
-  Increase average order value within the low-value segment by introducing product bundles, cross-sell recommendations, or minimum spend thresholds.  
-  Adopt segmented marketing strategies, focusing ROI-driven campaigns on high-value customers while testing value-lift initiatives for lower-value customers.  
-  Track customer movement between segments over time to evaluate whether commercial initiatives are successfully upgrading customer value.

### Limitations & Next Analytical Steps

### Limitations

- Lack of time-series data limits the ability to assess performance trends and seasonality.
- Absence of customer-level metrics restricts evaluation of retention and lifetime value.
- Aggregated data reduces visibility into individual purchasing behaviour.

### Next Analytical Steps

To strengthen commercial decision making, future analysis should include:

- Average order value trends by segment over time  
- Customer retention and repeat purchase behaviour  
- Marketing channel attribution and acquisition cost by segment  



These insights would enable more targeted commercial strategies and stronger forecasting.


---  





[⬆ Back to top](#top)

Commit message:

Simplify dataset and code references in README
Removed redundant links to dataset and code in README.

README.md, after:

<a name="top"></a>
## 🎮  Playhub - Gamestore - Project Background

***Q1,Q2‑Commercial Review: Game Shop Sales Report Jan-Jun 2025***

Play Hub is an online retailer specialising in gaming consoles and IT equipment, offering products such as PlayStation 5 consoles, AirPods, and Google Pixel devices. This analysis focused on sales performance for the first half of 2025, using Python with Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn and Excel to uncover purchasing trends and operational insights. Based on these findings, projections were developed for the second half of the year to guide stock planning, marketing strategies, and revenue optimisation. The review demonstrates how data-driven insights can support stronger business performance.  

The review will provide recommdations the following key areas:  

-  **[Marketing Channel Performance & Revenue Contribution](#marketing-channel-performance--revenue-contribution)**  
-  **[High-Value vs Low-Value Single-Order Users](#high-value-vs-low-value-single-order-users)**  

The Python code used in Pandas to clean the data is [here](Dataset/Code.ipynb).
The dataset csv file used to for the project is [here](Dataset).   

---
## Marketing Channel Performance & Revenue Contribution  

We looked at revenue performance by each marketing channel, Affiliate, Direct, Email, Search and Social. Revenue is very evenly spread across channels, with Affiliate and Search slightly outperforming the rest.
Search stands out for having the highest average order value, suggesting high-intent customers, while Social and Affiliate drive revenue more through volume.
There’s an opportunity to optimise channel mix rather than relying on any single channel.  


<img width="4931" height="2200" alt="Picture 2" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/667a7dfd-53f5-4df2-bf8e-ac2c3017a7f6" />  

### Key Findings

- 	**Revenue distribution is balanced** across all channels, with Affiliate (£632k) and Search (£597k) marginally outperforming others.  
- 	**Search delivers the highest Average Order Value (£481)**, indicating stronger purchase intent and higher quality traffic.  
- 	**Affiliate and Social drive revenue primarily through order volume**, not transaction value.  
- 	**Email and Direct perform efficiently but at smaller scale**, with competitive AOVs but lower total orders.   

No channel is currently a clear outlier, suggesting stability but limited upside without targeted optimisation.
 
### Commercial Interpretation  

- 	**Intent differentiation:** Search captures late-funnel demand, resulting in higher AOV, while Social and Affiliate capture broader, earlier funnel traffic.  
- 	**Volume vs value dynamics:** Revenue parity across channels is achieved through different mechanics. Either higher AOV (Search) or higher order counts (Affiliate, Social).  
- 	**Risk profile:** Even revenue spread reduces exposure to channel specific volatility but may indicate under-leveraged high-intent channels.
 
### Strategic Implications & Recommendations  

***Scale selectively***  
- 	**Search:** Prioritise incremental investment while closely tracking marginal ROI and cost inflation.  
- 	**Affiliate:** Maintain investment given strong revenue contribution, subject to margin and commission control.  

***Optimise before scaling***  
- 	**Social:** Focus on conversion rate and AOV uplift through targeting and creative optimisation rather than increased spend.  
- 	**Email:** Test segmentation, retention, and cross-sell strategies to unlock incremental revenue from an efficient channel.  

***Manage trade-offs***  
- 	**Search** scaling risks diminishing returns as competition increases.  
- 	**Affiliate** growth may pressure margins if incentives rise.  
 
### Limitations & Next Analytical Steps

- 	Analyse cost per acquisition and ROAS by channel to validate scaling decisions.  
- 	Segment performance by customer type (new vs returning) to refine spend allocation.  
- 	Test AOV uplift initiatives in lower value channels to improve revenue efficiency.  

[⬆ Back to top](#top)  

---  

## High-Value vs Low-Value Single-Order Users

This dataset segments customer orders into High and Low order value groups and summarises their commercial performance using three key metrics:  
-  Order Value Segment: Categorises orders based on their monetary value (Higher vs. Lower than the average order value).  
-  Order Count: The total number of orders placed within each segment.  
-  Total Revenue: The cumulative revenue generated by each segment.  
The purpose of this segmentation is to understand how different customer value groups contribute to overall business performance and revenue generation.  

<img width="2855" height="2662" alt="Picture 3" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d44eb462-af6b-4efc-9ba5-e1909085e847" />  
<img width="3107" height="2635" alt="Picture 4" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d73c64d-a117-4eeb-a10f-c0f91dbad635" />



### Key Findings

-  The High order value segment generated approximately 74% of total revenue while representing fewer orders than the Low segment.   
-  The Low order value segment accounted for a higher number of orders but contributed only 26% of total revenue.  
-  This indicates a substantial difference in average order value between the two segments, with high-value customers driving disproportionate revenue impact.  
-  Revenue is concentrated within a smaller group of higher-spending customers, increasing the importance of segment-level performance monitoring.

 
### Commercial Interpretation  

From a commercial perspective, the business is value-led rather than volume-led.  

While the Low order value segment shows strong transactional activity, it delivers limited revenue efficiency. In contrast, the High order value segment demonstrates significantly higher revenue per order, suggesting stronger purchasing intent, higher willingness to pay, or more effective product-market fit.  

This imbalance highlights that growth driven purely by order volume may not translate into meaningful revenue uplift, whereas protecting and expanding high-value customers is likely to yield greater commercial returns.  

### Strategic Implications & Recommendations  

-  Prioritise retention of high-value customers through loyalty incentives, personalised promotions, or premium experiences to reduce revenue concentration risk.  
-  Increase average order value within the low-value segment by introducing product bundles, cross-sell recommendations, or minimum spend thresholds.  
-  Adopt segmented marketing strategies, focusing ROI-driven campaigns on high-value customers while testing value-lift initiatives for lower-value customers.  
-  Track customer movement between segments over time to evaluate whether commercial initiatives are successfully upgrading customer value.

### Limitations & Next Analytical Steps

### Limitations

- Lack of time-series data limits the ability to assess performance trends and seasonality.
- Absence of customer-level metrics restricts evaluation of retention and lifetime value.
- Aggregated data reduces visibility into individual purchasing behaviour.

### Next Analytical Steps

To strengthen commercial decision making, future analysis should include:

- Average order value trends by segment over time  
- Customer retention and repeat purchase behaviour  
- Marketing channel attribution and acquisition cost by segment  



These insights would enable more targeted commercial strategies and stronger forecasting.


---  





[⬆ Back to top](#top)
